I was "hired" to review the landscape of apps on the Shopify platform, using data scraped from publicly available Shopify websites. My goal was to figure out what key factors play into the success of a Shopify app.

For each numbered part in this project, there is a page made in Power BI. Each question itself is a visualization. Each subquestion is a screenshot of the entire screen to show work.

PART 1: APP LANDSCAPE
First, I found key statistics on the types of apps that are out there. The page is called App Landscape.
  1. Made a KPI Card that counts the unique number of apps.
  2. Made a Line Chart getting the sum of the review count on the Y-axis, and the lastmod date on the X-Axis.
  3. Made a Scatterplot with the reviews_count on the X axis and the average rating on the Y axis and annotated my interpretation in a text box

PART 2: REVIEWS
Made a new sheet called Reviews to study the reviews on Shopify
  1. Created a new Column in the Reviews table named helpful_reviews using a DAX expression, which multiplies the rating by 1+helpful_count to weigh the reviews by how helpful they’ve been found. Made a Card with the average value of the new helpful_reviews column.
  2. Created a new Column in the Reviews table named developer_answered using a DAX expression, which is 1 (or TRUE) if the developer_reply column is not blank and 0 (or FALSE) if the column row is blank (see P2Q2 formula). Made a scatterplot comparing the average rating on the Y-Axis by the value of the developer_answered column on the X-Axis.

PART 3: APP REVIEWS
Made a new sheet named App Reviews.

  1. In the data model, I created a new Many:1 relationship between the Reviews table and the Apps table (see P3Q1- relationship creation). Using this new table, I made a bar chart with the developer on the X-Axis, and the sum of rating on the Y-Axis.
  2. Since the chart in the previous question is misleading because an app could have a high sum of ratings if it has many one-star reviews. I thus made a new bar chart with developer on the X-Axis against the helpful_review average on the Y-Axis.
  3. Answered the following questions: Which developers are the most responsive? I thus made a bar chart with the developer from the apps table and the developer_answered column created in question 2.2. Added a Filter for this visual only which selects only the rows where reviews_count is greater than 500.
